Migrated 'Monitor and restart offline slaves' from wiki (#3324)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/managing/nodes.adoc

= Managing Nodes

> ### Monitor and Restart Offline Slaves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Monitor and Restart Offline Agents
```

This script can monitor and restart offline nodes if they are not disconnected manually.

Of course you can disable email notification. Thanks author for email notification.

> You can run this script in Jenkins Console. But I think it is good idea to create Jenkins task, which will be run periodically (for example hourly). Groovy Plugin needs for Jenkins jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script runs in the Jenkins Script Console or can run periodically as a Jenkins job with the plugin:groovy[Groovy plugin].
```

= Managing Nodes

### Monitor and Restart Offline Slaves
This script can monitor and restart offline nodes if they are not disconnected manually.

Of course you can disable email notification. Thanks author for email notification.

You can run this script in Jenkins Console. But I think it is good idea to create Jenkins task, which will be run periodically (for example hourly). Groovy Plugin needs for Jenkins jobs.

Also see link:https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Display+Information+About+Nodes[Display Information About Nodes]

> [source,syntaxhighlighter-pre]

Reviewer: Since this is source code written in the groovy language, the highlighting should be based on groovy syntax rather than `syntaxhighlighter-pre`.

```suggestion
[source,groovy]
```

----

> import hudson.model.*

Reviewer: The `hudson.model.*` packages are pre-imported. 
```suggestion
```

import hudson.node_monitors.*
import hudson.slaves.*
import java.util.concurrent.*
 
jenkins = Hudson.instance
 
import javax.mail.internet.*;
import javax.mail.*
import javax.activation.*
 
 
def sendMail (slave, cause) {
   
 message = slave + " slave is down. Check http://JENKINS_HOSTNAME:JENKINS_PORT/computer/" + slave + "\nBecause " + cause
 subject = slave + " slave is offline"
 toAddress = "JENKINS_ADMIN@YOUR_DOMAIN"
 fromAddress = "JENKINS@YOUR_DOMAIN"
 host = "SMTP_SERVER"
 port = "SMTP_PORT"
 
 Properties mprops = new Properties();
 mprops.setProperty("mail.transport.protocol","smtp");
 mprops.setProperty("mail.host",host);
 mprops.setProperty("mail.smtp.port",port);
 
 Session lSession = Session.getDefaultInstance(mprops,null);
 MimeMessage msg = new MimeMessage(lSession);
 
 
 //tokenize out the recipients in case they came in as a list
 StringTokenizer tok = new StringTokenizer(toAddress,";");
 ArrayList emailTos = new ArrayList();
 while(tok.hasMoreElements()){

>  emailTos.add(new InternetAddress(tok.nextElement().toString()));

Reviewer: Indent two spaces within the while loop
```suggestion
  emailTos.add(new InternetAddress(tok.nextElement().toString()));
```

     println('\tcomputer.isOffline: ' + slave.getComputer().isOffline()); 
     println('\tcomputer.isTemporarilyOffline: ' + slave.getComputer().isTemporarilyOffline());
     println('\tcomputer.getOfflineCause: ' + slave.getComputer().getOfflineCause());
     println('\tcomputer.offline: ' + computer.offline); 
      
      
   } else {
     numberOfflineNodes ++
     println "  ERROR: can't get PATH from slave ${computer.name}."
     println('\tcomputer.isOffline: ' + slave.getComputer().isOffline()); 
     println('\tcomputer.isTemporarilyOffline: ' + slave.getComputer().isTemporarilyOffline());
     println('\tcomputer.getOfflineCause: ' + slave.getComputer().getOfflineCause());
     println('\tcomputer.offline: ' + computer.offline); 
     sendMail(computer.name, slave.getComputer().getOfflineCause().toString())
     if (slave.getComputer().isTemporarilyOffline()) {
      if (!slave.getComputer().getOfflineCause().toString().contains("Disconnected by")) {
         computer.setTemporarilyOffline(false, slave.getComputer().getOfflineCause())        
      }
     } else {
         computer.connect(true)  
     }
   }
 }
println ("Number of Offline Nodes: " + numberOfflineNodes)

> println ("Number of Nodes: " + numberNodes)  

Reviewer: Remove trailing whitespace from this line (and from the other lines in the file.
```suggestion
println ("Number of Nodes: " + numberNodes)
```
